doc team edit (#38)
riscv/riscv-double-trap: src/riscv-double-trap.adoc

[NOTE]
====
After a trap handler, such as `scause`, `sepc`, and `stval` 
among others, saves the state that is needed to resume from the trap, it

> should clear the `SDT` bit when it is reentrant.

Reviewer: This change  is not right. The `scause` `sepc` are the   state  that the guideline is stating must be saved before clearing the `SDT` bit. Dont see a need to change this sentence.

Author: The original in this case is hard to parse though. Can we compromise with "After a trap handler saves the state, such as `scause`, `sepc`, and `stval`, that is needed to resume from the trap, it should clear the `SDT` bit...."

Reviewer: We could update to:
"After a trap handler has saved the state, such as `scause`, `sepc`, and `stval`, needed for resuming from the trap and is reentrant it should clear the `SDT` bit."

If the `SDT` is reset by an `SRET`, the trap handler is enabled to detect double

> traps that occur during the tail phase, where it restores critical state to return

Reviewer: This is explaining why the ISA decided to reset the `SDT`. I think original sentence is good.

Author: Starting a sentence with a gerund can be confusing for translation. This sentence is also passive so making it more active can help with understanding. Can we compromise with this? "Resetting the `SDT` by an `SRET` enables the trap handler to detect a double trap that occurs during the tail phase, where it restores a critical state to return..."?

Reviewer: Yes. That would be good.

[NOTE]
====
After a trap handler has saved the state, such as `scause`, `sepc`, 
and `stval`, needed for resuming from the trap and is reentrant, it 
should clear the `SDT` bit.

> Resetting the SDT by an SRET enables the trap handler to detect a double 

Reviewer: @kersten1 the backticks around SDT are missing. Also could we change "that occurs" to "that may occur". The double trap may or may not occur - most likely does not.

> Resetting the SDT by an SRET enables the trap handler to detect a double 

Author: ```suggestion
Resetting the `SDT` by an SRET enables the trap handler to detect a double 
```

> trap that occurs during the tail phase, where it restores a critical state 

Reviewer: @kersten1 "a critical state" -> "critical state" since there are many such critical states that are restored.

RNMI handler is not provided with information that a trap reports in the
`mtval` and the `mtval2` registers. This information, if needed, can be obtained
by the RNMI handler by decoding the instruction at the address in `mnepc` and
examining its source register contents.
====

* When the Smrnmi extension is not implemented, or if the Smrnmi extension is
  implemented and `mnstatus.NMIE` is 0, the hart enters a critical-error state
  without updating any architectural state, including the `pc`. This state
  involves ceasing execution, disabling all interrupts (including NMIs), and
  asserting a `critical-error` signal to the platform.

[NOTE]
====
The actions performed by the platform when a hart asserts a `critical-error` signal
are platform-specific. The range of possible actions include restarting
the affected hart or restarting the entire platform, among others.
====

An `MRET` instruction sets the `MDT` bit to 0.

The Smdbltrp extension introduces a read-write critical-error-trigger (`cetrig`)
field (bit 19) to the `dcsr` CSR cite:[DBG]. When `cetrig` is set to 1, a hart
in a critical error state enters Debug Mode instead of asserting the

> critical-error signal to the platform. Upon such entry into  Debug Mode, the

Author: ```suggestion
critical-error signal to the platform. Upon such entry into Debug Mode, the
```

RNMI handler is not provided with information that a trap reports in the
`mtval` and the `mtval2` registers. This information, if needed, can be obtained
by the RNMI handler by decoding the instruction at the address in `mnepc` and
examining its source register contents.
====

* When the Smrnmi extension is not implemented, or if the Smrnmi extension is
  implemented and `mnstatus.NMIE` is 0, the hart enters a critical-error state
  without updating any architectural state, including the `pc`. This state
  involves ceasing execution, disabling all interrupts (including NMIs), and
  asserting a `critical-error` signal to the platform.

[NOTE]
====
The actions performed by the platform when a hart asserts a `critical-error` signal
are platform-specific. The range of possible actions include restarting
the affected hart or restarting the entire platform, among others.
====

An `MRET` instruction sets the `MDT` bit to 0.

The Smdbltrp extension introduces a read-write critical-error-trigger (`cetrig`)
field (bit 19) to the `dcsr` CSR cite:[DBG]. When `cetrig` is set to 1, a hart
in a critical error state enters Debug Mode instead of asserting the

> critical-error signal to the platform. When the hart enters Debug Mode, the

Reviewer: "Upon such"  is important since the following actions like setting cause to 7 do not occur on other debug mode entries. We should not change this.

> critical-error signal to the platform. When the hart enters Debug Mode, the

Author: ```suggestion
critical-error signal to the platform. Upon such entry into  Debug Mode, the
```

`cause` field of `dcsr` is set to 7, and its `extcause` field is set to 0,
indicating a critical error triggered the Debug Mode entry. This cause has the
highest priority among all reasons for entering Debug Mode. Resuming from Debug

> Debug Mode following an entry from the critical error state returns the hart to the

Author: ```suggestionMode following an entry from the critical error state returns the hart to the
```

> Debug Mode following an entry from the critical error state returns the hart to the

Author: ```suggestion
Mode following an entry from the critical error state returns the hart to the
```

> highest priority among all reasons for entering Debug Mode. Resuming operations from 

Author: Not sure if "operations" is the right word here. The sentence would benefit from having a noun though.

Reviewer: In this context "Resuming" is well understood.

Author: Yes but it would benefit from having a noun. In the original, it is not clear if "resuming" is a noun or a verb. Adding a noun would make it a verb, which is then easier to translate. I will cave on this one if you really want the original though.

Reviewer: Yes. We should retain the original.

> highest priority among all reasons for entering Debug Mode. Resuming operations from 

Author: ```suggestion
highest priority among all reasons for entering Debug Mode. Resuming from Debug
```

critical error state.

[NOTE]
====

> The implication of this specification is that resuming operations from Debug Mode,

Reviewer: We can keep it as is - resuming  from Debug  Mode - is a well defined thing.

Author: Same with this one. The noun makes it clearer.

following an entry due to a critical error will either result in an immediate
re-entry into Debug Mode due to the critical error if `cetrig` is set to 1, or

> it will cause the critical-error signal to be sent to the platform.  The

Author: ```suggestion
it will cause the critical-error signal to be asserted to the platform.  The
```

debugger can resume with `cetrig` set to 0 to allow the platform-defined actions
on critical-error signal to occur. Other possible actions include initiating a

> hart or resetting the platform by using the Debug Module reset control.

Reviewer: The intent was to say "hart or platform" reset. With this  rewrite "initiating a hart" has no meaning.

> hart or resetting the platform by using the Debug Module reset control.

Author: ```suggestion
hart or platform by using the Debug Module reset control.
```

[NOTE]
====

> The implication of this specification is that resuming operations from Debug Mode,

Author: ```suggestion
The implication of this specification is that resuming from Debug Mode,
```

[NOTE]
====
The implication of this specification is that resuming from Debug Mode,
following an entry due to a critical error will either result in an immediate
re-entry into Debug Mode due to the critical error if `cetrig` is set to 1, or
it will cause the critical-error signal to be asserted to the platform.  The
debugger can resume with `cetrig` set to 0 to allow the platform-defined actions
on critical-error signal to occur. Other possible actions include initiating a

> hart or platform by using the Debug Module reset control.

Reviewer: @kersten1 "hart of platform by using" should be "hart of platform reset using"

> hart or platform by using the Debug Module reset control.

Author: ```suggestion
hart or platform using the Debug Module reset control.
```

it will cause the critical-error signal to be asserted to the platform.  The
debugger can resume with `cetrig` set to 0 to allow the platform-defined actions
on critical-error signal to occur. Other possible actions include initiating a

> hart or platform using the Debug Module reset control.

Reviewer: @kersten1 
The sentence is not reading right. It says:
"Other possible actions include initiating a hart or platform using the Debug Module reset control."
It should say:
"Other possible actions include initiating a hart or platform reset using the Debug Module reset control."

Reviewer: @kersten1 - I will merge this and fix this post merge.
